---
layout: post
title: Homeworld 2
tags:
  - reviews
  - PC
  - rts
---

After playing Warhammer 40,000 and Company of Heroes, both made by Relic, I decided to take a look at Homeworld 2, another of Relic’s games. Reading around, Homeworld seemed to be a good game. It had reviews almost always above 9/10, and Homeworld won the game of the year in 1999. Reading the review about Homeworld 2, the reviewer said that Homeworld 2 was no different from Homeworld 1, except improvements in graphics, sound, and difficultly in playing the game. So I assumed that Homeworld 2 would be as good, if not, better than Homeworld 1. Therefore, I went to get the game.

Homeworld 2 is a game based in the future, with space combat and hyperfielding across galaxies and space. The battles here are somewhat similar to the battles you would see in the space battles in Star Wars: Empire at war. In fact, playing this game feels quite a lot like playing Star Wars. The graphics are satisfactory, but not spectacular. Same for the sound.

What made Homeworld such a reputable game is its gameplay. Reviewers everywhere commented about this same thing. However, I do not see what is so great about the gameplay of Homeworld 2. The use of tactics and environment advantages were little, and what you would most likely find yourself doing is just collecting resources, then spamming the most effective units to attack with. This repetitiveness reminds me of when I played Battle for Middle-Earth 2. I did the exact same thing, collecting resources, then spamming the most effective units and attack. This eventually led to very boring gameplay, using and doing the same thing over and over again. Thus, this killed my interest for playing Homeworld 2.

Its goodbye for Homeworld 2. Not a good game, in my opinion.

{% include youtube-player.html id="odRUdN05q2c" %}
Homeworld 2 Trailer (2:31)

Graphics: 8<br />
Sound: 8<br />
Gameplay: 6<br />
Lasting appeal: 6<br />
Overall: 7
